# Sensing Finger Input Using An RFID Transmission Line: Code Repository
## File Strusture
Code
* `classify.py` classifies data in the format same as files in ./sample_data
* `plot.py` plot data files

Sample_data
* In this folder each subfolder corresponds with a gesture. Each gesture has ten data files, generated by experiment.
## Usage
### 1. `plot.py`
Takes one parameter: the relative or absolute path to data file to be ploted. Call this script with Python interpreter, for example:

```
/usr/local/opt/python/bin/python3.7 ./Code/plot.py ./sample_data/AB/2.csv
```
The first string (`/usr/local/opt/python/bin/python3.7`) indicates
path to Python interpreter (which varies depending on where you installed Python interpreter). The second string (`./Code/plot.py`)
indicates path to script. The last string (`./sample_data/A1/2.csv`) indicates path to file to be drawn.

### 2. `classify.py`
This script takes the same parameter as classify.py: the relative or absolute path to data file to be ploted. So executing this command:
```
/usr/local/opt/python/bin/python3.7 ./Code/classify.py ./sample_data/AB/2.csv
```
will output "AB" in the terminal, which is the classification result.

Inside this script, you can modify hyper-parameter P and D, which are set empirically to 1.8 and 50.

## Hardware and Software Information
We use an Impinj Speedway R420 RFID reader without
any hardware or firmware modification. The RFID reader has four
antenna ports and operates in a frequency range of 902.75–927.25
MHz. The default antennas used by the reader are directional, with
9 dBi gain and 70 degrees elevation and azimuth beam widths. The
reader and RFID chips/tags are compatible with EPC Gen2 standard protocol. The multiple reader antennas work in a time-division multiplexing mode. The time slot for each antenna is ∼200 𝜇𝑠.
All data logging and detection algorithms are implemented in C# and Python code running on a laptop (Intel i5-6200U 2.4GHz CPU, 8GB RAM). The laptop is connected to the RFID reader through an Ethernet cable for communication. Backscatter packets for all tags received by the reader are forwarded to the laptop for processing. In order to run code in this repository, please have Python 3.7 and relative packages (NumPy, pandas, Matplotlib) installed.
